MAGECLOUD-3378 scaled architecture (#6119)
magento/devdocs: src/cloud/architecture/scaled-architecture.md

---
group: cloud-guide
title: Scaled architecture
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
---

> The Cloud infrastructure scales according to your resource needs to achieve greater efficiency. The {{site.data.var.ece}} monitors your applications and can adjust capacity to maintain steady, predictable performance. Converting to this architecture helps to mitigate problems, such as latency, large spikes in traffic, or running out of storage.

Reviewer: `running out of storage` should be removed - it's not related.

## Split architecture

Historically, the Pro architecture consisted of 3 nodes, each containing a full tech stack. Now, the scalable infrastructure provides a tiered solution with a minimum of 6 nodes: 3 nodes for the web server and 3 nodes for the core database and other services. This split architecture provides the capability to scale tiers independently to achieve an optimal balance of performance. The core tier scales vertically (increases in size), and the web tier scales horizontally (increases instance count) and vertically (changes instance type and size).

> Vertical scaling must use the same instance type and size for each node:

Reviewer: Remove `vertical`. Instance type restrictions apply based on tier and not based on type of scaling.

-  `C5 instances` for each WEB node
-  `M5 or M5n instances` for each Core node

### Core tier scaling

There are 3 nodes (core nodes) for the database and included services, such as ElasticSearch, MariaDB, and Redis. When the core tier approaches capacity, the only way to scale is to increase the server size, such as boosting the CPU power and memory. Capacity is limited to the size of the node that is available. Because the database cluster is designed for high availability, you cannot scale horizontally in a reliable way with the technologies used.

![Core tier scaling]

Consider an example that the core node instance type is _m5.2xlarge_ with 32Gb RAM. A service, such as the database, uses a considerable amount of memory (30Gb). Scaling to the next available instance size _m5.4xlarge_ provides 64Gb RAM, double the memory, and accommodates the growing needs of the database.

> Further optimizing performance includes routing traffic. You can route traffic based on the node type. For example, you can serve web traffic on the db node or you can isolate the db node from the web traffic.

Reviewer: Need to add something that `isolating` is default behavior.

### Web tier scaling

There are 3 nodes for php-fpm and manages web traffic. In addition to vertical scaling by increasing power and memory, the web tier can scale horizontally by adding extra web servers to an existing cluster when constricted at the PHP level.

![Web tier scaling]

This complements the vertical scaling provided by the database tier.

> Consider an example that the web node instance type is _C5.2xlarge with 8 CPU and 16Gb RAM_. The number of requests to the site increased greatly. You can add an additional C5.2xlarge node to handle the increase in php-fpm processes or you can change each instance type to _C5.4xlarge with 16 CPU and 32Gb RAM_. Adding an additional node is less expensive than changing all web node instances to a larger type.

Reviewer: Let's not talk costs. Instead we can refer to more granular scaling capabilities (you don't need to go x2 all the time, wasting vCPU limits allocated to your projects). For customer the benefit is - vCPU's will be used in a more clever way, so there will be less risk to run out of surge capacities.

## Project structure

Minimally, Pro projects with the Scaling architecture have 6 nodes available.

-  3 web nodes c5.2xlarge (8 CPU, 16 Gb RAM)
-  3 core nodes m5.2xlarge (8 CPU, 32 Gb RAM)

Each project is unique, however, and requires performance monitoring to properly analyze resource management. Each account includes the New Relic Infrastructure service, which automatically connects with the application data and performance analytics to provide dynamic server monitoring. See [New Relic services][nri].

> ### SSH access

Reviewer: `4 to 6` is just in default setup. If it was scaled, it will be `4 to n`

Author: Of course! Fixed.

---
group: cloud-guide
title: Scaled architecture
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
---

The Cloud infrastructure scales according to your resource needs to achieve greater efficiency. The {{site.data.var.ece}} monitors your applications and can adjust capacity to maintain steady, predictable performance. Converting to this architecture helps to mitigate problems, such as latency or large spikes in traffic.

## Split architecture

Historically, the Pro architecture consisted of 3 nodes, each containing a full tech stack. Now, there is a  scalable infrastructure that provides a tiered solution with a minimum of 6 nodes: 3 nodes for the web server and 3 nodes for the core database and other services. This split architecture provides the capability to scale tiers independently to achieve an optimal balance of performance. The **core** tier scales vertically (increases in size), and the **web** tier scales horizontally (increases instance count) and vertically (changes instance type and size).

Scaling must use the same instance type and size for each node:

-  `C5 instances` for each WEB node
-  `M5 or M5n instances` for each Core node

### Core tier scaling

> There are 3 nodes (core nodes) for the database and included services, such as ElasticSearch, MariaDB, and Redis. When the core tier approaches capacity, the only way to scale is to increase the server size, such as boosting the CPU power and memory. Capacity is limited to the size of the node that is available. Because the database cluster is designed for high availability, you cannot scale horizontally in a reliable way with the technologies used.

Reviewer 2: Consider:  In the split architecture model, the Cloud infrastructure core tier includes 3 nodes for .... .

![Core tier scaling]

Consider an example that the core node instance type is _m5.2xlarge_ with 32Gb RAM. A service, such as the database, uses a considerable amount of memory (30Gb). Scaling to the next available instance size _m5.4xlarge_ provides 64Gb RAM, double the memory, and accommodates the growing needs of the database.

> Further optimizing performance includes routing traffic. You can route traffic based on the node type. By default the db node is isolated from the web traffic, so, as an example, you can choose to serve web traffic on the db node.

Author: no and no
But this is a little confusing, so I will fix it.

### Web tier scaling

> There are 3 nodes for php-fpm and manages web traffic. In addition to vertical scaling by increasing power and memory, the web tier can scale horizontally by adding extra web servers to an existing cluster when constricted at the PHP level.

Reviewer 2: Instead of "There are 3 nodes ..."

Consider: 
In the split architecture model, the Cloud infrastructure web tier includes 3 nodes for php-fpm and managing web traffic.   Not sure... just fix  subject verb agreement:  "3 nodes ... manages"

adding extra web servers to an existing cluster when constricted at the PHP level ---    what is constricted?  what is causing the constriction?  (Maybe it's fine, but perhaps could provide more specific explanation.)

Author: Yeah, there is a slight problem here.

![Web tier scaling]

> This complements the vertical scaling provided by the database tier.

Reviewer 2: This-- vague reference

In the Web tier scaling diagram, consider adding a label for horizontal scaling , perhaps add one more additional instance to emphasize the horizontal scaling concept .

Author: Yes, you are right. It should explain more about how it compliments.

Author: On the graphic, it does indicate an additional instance. It has "n", which indicates an indefinite horizontal growth. I have already pushed the graphics through a long approval process. Perhaps later, if the scaling concepts ever become more hands-on for the user, then we can create graphics to elaborate.

> Consider an example that the web node instance type is _C5.2xlarge with 8 CPU and 16Gb RAM_. The number of requests to the site increased greatly. You can add an additional C5.2xlarge node to handle the increase in php-fpm processes or you can change each instance type to _C5.4xlarge with 16 CPU and 32Gb RAM_. Adding an additional node reduces the risk of insufficient surge capacity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider an example environment with a web node instance type that is _C5.2xlarge with 8 CPU and 16Gb RAM_. Suddenly, web request traffic to the site spikes dramatically. You can add an additional C5.2xlarge node to handle the increase in php-fpm processes, or you can change each instance type to _C5.4xlarge with 16 CPU and 32Gb RAM_. Adding an additional node reduces the risk of insufficient surge capacity.
```

Reviewer 2: the new sentence about spike in traffic is a bit much maybe, but consider adjusting the existing sentence for a better transition in the example.

## Project structure

> Minimally, Pro projects with the Scaling architecture have 6 nodes available.

Reviewer 2: with the Scaling architecture --     title = Scaled architecture;  reference to split architecture, and scalable infrastructure...   Just wondering what the official term that customers will search on--   I think it might be helpful to clarify the relationship between split architecture and scaling --    Does split architecture = scaled architecture, or split architecture enables scaling, or a project with split architecture that has been scaled will have a scaled architecture?

-  3 web nodes c5.2xlarge (8 CPU, 16 Gb RAM)
-  3 core nodes m5.2xlarge (8 CPU, 32 Gb RAM)

Each project is unique, however, and requires performance monitoring to properly analyze resource management. Each account includes the New Relic Infrastructure service, which automatically connects with the application data and performance analytics to provide dynamic server monitoring. See [New Relic services][nri].

### SSH access

> Certain files and logs, such as the `/app/<project-id>/var/log` directory, are not shared between nodes. Each node has a unique SSH access. You can not use the Magento Cloud CLI to log in to the core or web nodes, but you can find the [SSH Access list] in the Project Web UI. The SSH Access 1 to 3 are Core nodes and 4 to _n_ are web nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certain files and logs, such as the `/app/<project-id>/var/log` directory, are not shared between nodes. Each node has a unique SSH access. You cannot use the Magento Cloud CLI to log in to the core or web nodes, but you can find the [SSH Access list] in the Project Web UI. In the list, SSH Access 1 to 3 are for accessing Core nodes, and 4 to _n_ are for accessing web nodes.
```

Author: I do not use `cannot`. Often times it is necessary to bold the NOT so that it draws attention.

## Project structure

Minimally, Pro projects with the Scaled architecture have 6 nodes available.

-  3 web nodes c5.2xlarge (8 CPU, 16 Gb RAM)
-  3 core nodes m5.2xlarge (8 CPU, 32 Gb RAM)

Each project is unique, however, and requires performance monitoring to properly analyze resource management. Each account includes the New Relic Infrastructure service, which automatically connects with the application data and performance analytics to provide dynamic server monitoring. See [New Relic services][nri].

### SSH access

Certain files and logs, such as the `/app/<project-id>/var/log` directory, are not shared between nodes. Each node has a unique SSH access. You can not use the Magento Cloud CLI to log in to the core or web nodes, but you can find the node addresses in the [SSH Access list] in the Project Web UI.

```bash
ssh <node>.<project-ID>-<environment>-<user-ID>@ssh.<region>.magento.com
```

-  `node` 1 to 3—Addresses to access the core nodes
-  `node` 4 to _n_—Addresses to access the web nodes

> Example response as you log in to a **core node** includes the _unified_ role:

Author: There is nothing to discuss at this time. It just appears like that as you log in, so you know you are on a core node. You can't control it, at least, not that I have been informed.

```terminal
 __  __                   _          ___ _             _
|  \/  |__ _ __ _ ___ _ _| |_ ___   / __| |___ _  _ __| |
| |\/| / _` / _` / -_) ' \  _/ _ \ | (__| / _ \ || / _` |
|_|  |_\__,_\__, \___|_||_\__\___/  \___|_\___/\_,_\__,_|
            |___/

 Welcome to Magento Cloud.

 This is server unique-server-id, role project-id:unified.

project-id@server-id:~$
```
{:.no-copy}

Example response as you log in to a **web node** includes the _web_ role:

```terminal
 __  __                   _          ___ _             _
|  \/  |__ _ __ _ ___ _ _| |_ ___   / __| |___ _  _ __| |
| |\/| / _` / _` / -_) ' \  _/ _ \ | (__| / _ \ || / _` |
|_|  |_\__,_\__, \___|_||_\__\___/  \___|_\___/\_,_\__,_|
            |___/

 Welcome to Magento Cloud.

 This is server unique-server-id, role project-id:web.

project-id@server-id:~$
```
{:.no-copy}

### Log locations

> The log locations vary slightly depending on the node. For example, database logs are not written to web nodes.

Reviewer 2: This is slightly confusing - I think you are saying that the available logs depend on the node type.  Will the logs have different paths depending on the node, or just some logs are available only on a specific node type? 

Guessing that this table will have more entries eventually.

Author: Yes. It should not be confusing. You won't see a database log on a node that doesn't contain a database.
In any case, this list may grow or it may be passed off to log locations topic. Not sure to the extent of this change yet. I created this section to accommodate a list similar to log locations, but haven't received much information.
